Hello and welcome back to the course in Python programming today we've got a super exciting challenge
ahead of us.
We're talking about basketball trends.
Yes we're going to have a very interesting data set.
And at the same time we're going to learn a lot about Python we're going to learn about matrices while
getting our hands dirty with this real life and data set.
All right so let's get to it.
Basketball Trends Project brief what do we have here.
Well first of all for those of you who don't know what the NBA is I understand a lot of you guys know
what the NBA is but still we have students from all over the world.
So the NBA is the National Basketball Association in America and that is the main basketball league
and most of the players that you've heard of like are Michael Jordan.
They play and played in the NBA.
So we're going to be analyzing the NBA players.
All right.
What are we going to do here.
Well we're going to take the top ten paid players right now.
There they are on your screen the highest paid players of the 2015 2016 season.
And there they are.
Their salaries.
This is all publicly available information and we're going to take all of these 10 players and we're
going to analyze how have they been playing over the past 10 years.
Imagine that we're going to take data for the past 10 years and we're going to look at how they've been
playing in those years.
So your goal for this challenge is to simply investigate trends and patterns that you see in their performance
over the past 10 years because ultimately they haven't always been the top 10 player.
Right let's see how they got there.
Let's see how they have been improving and what's been changing about their game and so on and don't
worry if you don't know anything about basketball.
I was in a very similar situation.
But you will literally understand everything as we go through.
I will make sure to cover off all of the basic knowledge it will need and we will have heaps of fun
.
So let's quickly have a look at the stats that we'll be analyzing here.
We've got stats for one of the players and basketball fans can you guess who this player is.
And here you can see this player stats for his full professional career.
And what I have outlined in red.
Other states will be looking at.
All right so going from left to right here we've got the years that we'll be looking at.
2005 2006 is the first season and 2014 15 is a final season we'll be looking at why aren't we looking
at the current 2015 16 season.
Well that is because at the time of making this video the season isn't yet finished.
So I didn't want to look at Dora that's for an incomplete season.
If you're a hardcore basketball fan you want to have the most up to date data and when you're watching
this video the season is finished.
Then feel free after we finished this section you can go back and just modify the data and by then you
will know how to do that.
And then you can just be updated and perform the same analysis or whatever analysis you may wish to
with the new data it's all possible after this section you will know how to do it.
All right.
So then we'll be looking at this column.
This is the total games played by this player in each of those seasons.
Then here we've got an mpg which stands for minutes per game and we won't be looking at minutes per
game.
That's one of the tables that we'll derive will actually have an input table of the total minutes that
player played in that whole season.
And then here we've got F.G. percentage.
I know this all looks complicated but it really isn't so.
5G stands for field goal so how many basketballs did that person throw into the hoop jeering the game
.
So not when they get penalties but actually while they're playing so either two points or three points
what does the accuracy of that player.
Once again we won't be looking at this exact table.
This is one of the tables we'll derive and that is part of our challenge.
We will have a table on the actual number of field goals and we will have a table on the number of field
goal attempt.
So basically if you divide one number by the other then you'll get this percentage.
And finally here we've got the points per game.
Once again this is the number of points that a player has scored in that whole seasons per game.
But we will have a table of the total number of points that person has scored in that season.
So there we go we'll have lots of input data.
You will see this going to be quite a lot of it is going to be enormous compared to what we've seen
before but nevertheless we'll play through it.
And this is a one of the beauties of this section.
Now we're ready to jump into the world of our end analysis and Dadda because we've done all the foundations
of programming fundamentals of our.
But we will have a table of the total number of points that person has scored in that season.
All right so that's what we're doing and that's what we're analyzing is already pretty exciting and
finally we're at that stage where we can apply the knowledge that we've gained so far in the course
to some real world Dawna's some real world fun and analytics.
All right.
So the question is where do we get this data set.
Well let me show you exit the presentation and if we go to as usual to w w w dot superdog a science
dot com slash python then if you scroll down here in Section for matrices you'll find the basketball
data set.
So go ahead and download that.
You'll see that it's a simple doc X-File.
If you don't have Microsoft Office or you can open doc X Files for some reason just download this Boscobel
data set a plain text file.
It has exactly the same text inside it.
All right so this is what the file looks like inside.
It's quite large it's got four pages of code.
Yes so much code and all you have to do is simply select all of this code.
So press comment a on a macro Quantrell on Windows and copy it just copy all this code and then go to
your notebooks and paste all of that code into one single cell.
That's what it will look like if it looks like this then you're doing the right thing and it's got some
instructions at the top here basically welcome to the world of basketball data.
I'm sure you will enjoy this section of the Python programming course and definitely I'm sure you will
enjoy it.
We've got some very interesting things coming up and here it's got instructions which you'll create
and how this data set works.
Basically all you have to do is now just run the cells.
I'm going to press shift enter and there we go.
I've run this cell and just check that everything is fine.
Let's type in the following word which is going to look at salaries or just type and salary and run
that as you can see what happens is a something has been printed out.
Well the something is actually matrix and if we do print salary it should print in a bit of a better
format.
Nevertheless this is our matrix for salaries.
We won't go into detail right now about what it is and how it works because naturally we haven't yet
understood anything about matrices we haven't learned how to deal with him or how to work with him but
don't worry that is the purpose of this section to understand how to work with matrices in Peifer.
In fact I'm actually going to zoom in a little bit so you can see well so there you go that's that's
how Matrix over there.
And that's the code.
And so the purpose of this section is to learn how to work with matrices and learn all the ins and outs
and at the same time analyze this data set and have some fun along the way.
And the reason why we're loading the data into our Gibara notebook and this way is because we haven't
yet learned how to import data from a CSP file and it's a bit early for us we'll learn that further
down in the course.
For now this method will suffice because in this section we want to focus on learning about matrices
.
So I'm super excited to get out of this section.
Go ahead and download the file and import the data into your Jupiter notebook and I'll see you on the
first tutorial.
Until then happy coding